{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13500\viewh13180\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 It's hard to categorise Emma Sailor. On the one hand, she's a custom-only tattoo artist in Norfolk, capable of drawing and inking tattoos with no small amount of skill and finesse. On the other, she has an extensive portfolio of mixed-media art that varies from fine liners to watercolours, letraset to prints. With the exception of a few recurring motifs, her themes, compositions, colours, and style are also fluid, variable, and hard to define. \
\
Take, for instance, 'Fuck it' [Row 4 image 2]. When asked if the word 'moose' held any particular personal meaning [thinking that the simplicity of the piece might have been inspired by Thoreau, and his dying word might have been included in commemoration]; "I threw some ink at a page and it looked like a moose." The piece, of course, isn't entirely light-hearted. "I use curse words often because I was brought up quite strictly and cursing was a terrible thing to do in my parents eyes, so in a childish way it is still a little bit of a shock factor to me." \
\
This certainly follows with her philosophy and justification of her art. "Art allows me to express myself, say the things I can\'92t say, put the feelings that are in my mind into the open. I use it as a vent, as a comedic platform, as a recording tool, as a self indulgent fantasy, so many facets. Sometimes I will draw things that are too deep to say out loud, sometimes I just draw cats." \
\
The wide range of reasons and uses allows for such pieces as 'Hands'[row 5 image 2], the ink-drawing from a mobile phone picture of two hands, with near-flawless cross-hatching and a noticeably disjointed wrist, to be deposited with ease next to an emotionally loaded image such as 'Hello, I'm Neurotic' [Row 5 image 1], inspired by a Pretty Girls Make Graves song, chosen because of its reflectivity towards the artist's personality at the time. The style of the last piece, meticulous inking mixed with watercolours and typographical insertions, generally around a self-portrait-like figure, is very common among her latest work. \
\
Part of the reason for her common self-portaiture is due to an independance gained at an early age. Born as the eldest and only daughter into a mobile military family (She has two younger brothers), she moved around often, first from Germany to the UK and then around different schools and areas. "The moving around has affected the way I work and the way I am, by primarily making me a lot more solitary, thus my reflectiveness in my artwork. I do not have a large group of friends as we never lived anywhere long enough to make those bonds, which I guess is a major factor in why I draw so much." This quality is evident in much of her work, which often gives off a melancholic and singular feel - only rarely does a piece exhibit more than one character, and often the main image floats upon a barren or washed background, like in 'Red Lips Long Braid' [row 1 image 2]. \
\
Here, the ethereal, floating aspect of the girl is clearly evident, but that isn't the focus of the piece: rather, the braid is, something clearly shown by the divisive and naturally flowing composition. The braid itself curls into the symbolic numbers 143, another recurring motif in Emma's work. "143 is about love. I draw these things because I love too hard." This frankness and simplicity is readily apparent in the deeply personal nature of her art. "I work with my feelings, whatever they are at the time, whether I\'92m happy or desolate. I am making messages for people; I guess it\'92s a bit like letter writing ... I am always trying to convey something in that I\'92m usually trying to tell someone how I feel about them or how I see a situation. I use different symbolistic ideals to promote whatever I want you to think about. I\'92m trying to convey myself."\
\
Even though, in her own words "my main strongpoint is my visual translation of what I want to convey," it has understandably not been easy to build up artistic confidence and recognition. Emma studied for for an unsatisfactory year at University, leaving because it didn't offer her what she needed. She later studied at the Norwich School of Art, where her insistence on working in the "here and now" convinced her that the more idealistic approach of the professors wasn't what she desire, either. She afterwards studied illustration at Camberwell in London, before deciding that "art is art. You can do it or you can\'92t. No certificate that costs too much money is going to make me better at what I do." Unfortunately, she agrees that the artistic community is definitely a part of recognition. "I find in art it\'92s not necessarily what you know, it\'92s who you know. But then that has helped me too so I can\'92t hate it too much. I also find that because a lot of people offer to do a lot of things for free,  people will bypass artists that charge for the free workers, even if it is not as good a piece of work." Luckily, the internet has provided a brilliant platform for showcasing, and her job as a tattoo-artist allows not only for finances but also another outlet for her art. \
\
And what can we expect of Emma in the future? "I can\'92t really say what direction I want to go in with my art because it\'92s momentary, and a lot of it is conveying messages I want people to hear. I have a few ideas I want to try out; I am going to collaborate with an animator I know, Robin Fuller, to try my hand at animation, and I also look forward to finding some good photographers to work with and illustrate photos." Of course, her wandering styles and fluid pieces, each a testament to her ability to try out new ideas and not be afraid of mistakes, make it quite hard to predict what is to come.  "Technically I am always evolving and changing how I work."}