{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf430
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9360\viewh5720\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Kaspian Shore's still, statuesque drawings and paintings display a kind of surreal timelessness that is immediately unique and distinguishable. His recurring characters resemble marble statues, frozen, in front of vistas wide enough for them to move. The fine inked details, the austere settings, and unnatural, arranged forms come together to create a melancholia that is distinct and poignant. \
\
The twenty-five year old German artist can certainly justify his themes of isolation, fear, and incapability: poor health in his teenage years limited and finally ended his education, and almost took his art as well. Having always been a scribbler, he dabbled in writing and music for a short while, before a friend started doing illustrating a children's book he was writing. The confidence she gave him, tied with his realization that he could paint the book himself, lead to his taking up ink and painting again. Kaspian never took any art classes, and actively avoided other art until he was confident in his own style, so as not to be influenced. \
\
Like many young artists, his greatest hurdle has been self-sufficiency. "
\f1\fs26 I must admit I have no idea how I would have got so far without the financial support of those who love and believe in me." The help he's received also shows itself thematically in his work. "I am motivated by the presence of limitlessness, of everlasting love, bonds, and friendship. My work has a strong personal and spiritual component that is often overlooked or disregarded."\
\
Much of Kaspian's work is a curious mixture of watercolour and ink. The inking process is where he is most comfortable, to the extent that he feels he has the ability he desires from ink, and is hoping to move on to oils. "I want to be able to paint realistically because it is the only way to let all the images in my head come to life. Ink has served me well as a fast and easy friend to quickly sketch my fantasies but my actual goal it is to portray in a more lifelike style." He also, however, wants his pieces to be "spiritual, ethereal." This is already apparent in many of his works, such as his favourite, 'Andrian and the Sea.' "It has that energy, that melancholy, being detached from everything and everyone while being whole and one with yourself." \
\
As for the future, apart from a promise of oils: "I'm not exactly sure where my place in the art world could be. I'd still be happy to find and then extend a niche for me, in which I have the right to speak and share with people what I think should be taken a look at in this world." And finally, when asked what his underlying motives are for his art, Kaspian responded that "Everything I do, I do for Andrian. Every picture I paint is motivated by the aim to be able to portray him in the most beautiful and realistic kind of way." The identity of Andrian? Well, Kaspian's beautiful and fantastic work answers that by itself. }