{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf430
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25100\viewh14980\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 When I think of Edinburgh, my first thought is never my friends, flat parties, classes, failing essay grades, IRN BRU mixed with JD, cigarettes, Cab Vol, Pollock Halls, or hangovers. Always and without fail I think first of moss in cobblestones, four different types of paving in a square metre, dank streets, Arthur's Seat, wind, more wind, some rainy wind, the meadows full of mud, gray cement, gray marble, gray skies, and an overall feeling of grayness that I've grown to like. This is probably because I pay too much attention to wherever I happen to be walking. So much attention that I find myself counting how many wads of gum litter the paving stones, or how many pigeons there are in St. Patrick's Square. This has led me not only to question my sanity, but also to categorize my favourite streets in Edinburgh, and particularly my favourite walks. Here are my top three loops, since you asked:\
\
1. The Royal Mile and Cowgate\
Pairing these two may seem a bit odd. But as any first year English student who has read Hogg or Stevenson can tell you, this city has a history of unseemly dual personalities: on the one hand, welcoming, open, Scottish quaintness, and on the other hand closed, dreary, damp Scottish darkness. If I were to walk this properly, I would probably start on Hunter Square, which you probably know as the place where the preteen goths hang out like a swam of bad-tempered blackbirds pretending to be crows. Initially, everything seems fine: there is a lot of space, the buildings don't tower over you, and there aren't as many cigarette butts in the cobble stones as you might think. Keep walking, however, and you find yourself on Cowgate, one of the most depressing streets in Edinburgh, in my opinion. Lots of people full of alcohol at two in the morning would disagree with me. If you go west from there, the state of the road doesn't seem to get better: it drags on for the better part of five minutes, smells funny, looks less funny, and the views up side streets don't help the feeling of general claustrophobia. (Of course, if you turn east, there's a huge bridge above your head that drips stale water. Not much better.) \
\
When one finally emerges, it's through a cramped sidewalk where newspapers are either blowing in the wind or have been plastered by rain and other liquids. At the end of that one can breathe freely, for the Grassmarket is, in comparison, well lit, doesn't smell as bad, and even has a few shops that sell things worth buying, not to mention a few pubs worth dining in. Walking to the end of the Grassmarket doesn't reveal anything that you can't see from the top, however, although it is a nice place for a promenade now that all the ruckus of last summer has been smoothed over, with a surprising lack of different asymmetrical forms of asphalt. So, instead turn up Victoria Street, which has a lovely sinuous curve, wonderful window shopping, and as of when I am writing this, a lot of contstruction work. I love that about Edinburgh. At no place does it feel finished or complete, and no where can one walk without seeing a croon of cranes disrupting the skyline. \
\
But you can avoid the scaffolding by taking the handy shortcut up to the Royal Mile half way up the street, which leaves you walking up the Upper Bow, and then looking to the left to see the castle left behind in the Grassmarket. Turning to the right, emitting a silent 'heh' or 'arg' at the name 'Thistle do nicely', you can walk a bit further and see the firth far off in the distance, quite possible the best part of the Royal Mile itself. The fact that at any point, no matter how many neds, tourists, tourists shops, christmas shops, poorly-designed kilts, pseudo-goths, taxis, pedicabs, flyerors, et cetera ad infinitum (ad nauseum) there are, one can always just look out and contemplate that that same body of water leads on to Guam, Hokkaido, Tahiti, the Bahamas, Puntas Arenas, and Wick. And since I've just described most of the Royal Mile, I'll leave this loop at that. \
\
2. The Meadows to Nicolson Street\
I love Middle-meadow Walk. It's fantastic. The straight line down the middle that is so easy to walk on, the greenery on both sides, the wide lane for bikes, the way it looks in the fall, even John, the guy who sells the Big Issue - I love all of it. The construction does get annoying, but that's how the city works, and one gets used to it. To avoid making myself sound more of a fool, I'll keep going and talk about Forest Rd, which has got to be one of my favourite streets in Edinburgh, because in it's short length it crams in enough shops, delis, restaurants, pubs, and whatnot to keep one going for a long time. Mostly I like the fact that it is never clean, almost never still, and that there is always a car in the way of a bus or a bike in the way of a car or a pedestrian in the way of a bike. At the end of it one has a fantastic view of George IV Bridge, which is a street that also seems cluttered with automobiles, flanked by buildings that seem to big for it, and generally road-blocked by something at some point or another. Bedlam's atrium has a better view than any other university building I can think of (not including New College, which doesn't count in lieu of the fact that it should.) \
\
Walk down Chambers street next, looking only to the north if you can, trying to avoid the sad fact that the museum is closed. This should be possible, given that the sidewalks there are wide enough to make any agoraphobic become kenophobic. Something about having a parking lot in the middle of the street always struck me as odd. But I digress. Nicolson is next, a street on which I've never thought to myself 'I don't feel like I'm in Edinburgh right now.' This street is perfectly imperfect. The street-signs are dinged from occasional errant busses, there are always pedestrians ignoring the green man, there are too many buses and the queues for them inhibit traffic, there are delis and falafel shops open on any given day enough to feed the entire nation of Tuvalu for a month. I normally take off my headphones for this street: the overload of sound cancels itself out to the point where one is almost calmed. [If you want a street that is perfect for music, listen to 'Videotape' by Radiohead on repeat while walking down Princess Street. You'll either be catatonic or crying by the end.] This street has so much going on that I used to duck into Gilford Park on the way to the University. Gilford Park is that forgotten street that is where a building should be, and it looks delightfully suburban. For an entire spring I got so fed up with looking at Edinburgh's streets that I would try and find a new thing to note about the skyline each day [Until I realised that the sky is just as gray and depressing, if not more so.] In Gilford Street the amount of ariels satisfied my curiosity for weeks. \
\
Going forth from there, try to avoid Buccleuch Street, as it is long and generally rather dull. There are some interesting places on it, like the Dagda Bar, which gives off the impression that the smoking ban hasn't occured, and Black Lion Games, a hole-in-the-wall gaming shop most people don't know exists, from what I gather. Walk from there down Boroughloch Lane, which has too many winds and cobbles for any normal street, and you're at the Meadows. A quick jaunt across will get you back to where you started, or you could just bail out altogether and go back to the Meadow bar after walking in circles for half the afternoon. [At this point, you may be wondering why I've avoided the University itself. I think Appleton Tower is a good enough answer.]\
\
3. Arthur's Seat\
\
I was in the city for one day when I first visited, at which point I ignored the paths and scrambled up the cliffs to the top of the 250 metre Arthur's Seat, deciding immediately that I would try and go to University here. I don't know of another city that has such a feature, short of Athens and maybe a dozen other cities that do. I've climbed the seat too many times to remember, spent summer days and winter nights on top, camped out in the park, watched the entire thing go up in smoke on Guy Fawkes night, and I still think that the Seat itself is the best part about Edinburgh. I've also found that my first way up is still the best. To do it, start at Holyrood and walk south. Before you is the decently sized bowl that is the vestigial presence of a dormant volcano. If that's not interesting, then you shouldn't be taking geophysics. Look to your left and there's an old Abbey. To your right is a remnant of one of the five forts originally on the mountain. Walk most of the way up through it, until you are level with the wooded flank of the steepest part of the hill. At this point, ignore the main traverse, and walk up through the small footpaths that meander through the burnt remnants of what was before November 5th, 2006. \
\
At some point you'll have to scramble up a cliff or two. And then fight through some gorse. And then go up past a scree field. If you do all that, you'll find a deserted little area beneath the summit, where you can look out over the valley, see the Castle and Old College and the hideous George Square buildings below you. This is probably the most calming retreat you'll find in Edinburgh. I'd suggest the summit itself: but it's cold, windy, rocky, and I can currently count two dozen people standing up there [and I'm in the Library.] But since if you have to bag the summit to make the climb feel worth it, go ahead. Climb back down by going over the shoulder to Samson's Ribs, through the funnel to the steps that lead to Queens drive, and have a nice walk around to where you started. Alternatively, go down off the summit to the parking lot, and walk around the long way. If at this point you grow tired of walking, I'd suggest either doing it again, as exercise, or buying a bike. If you choose to go up again, take a longer break on top, and reflect on the idea that the author of this article thinks the best walk in the city is the one that actually removes you from it. If you've bought Hogg's book to get the reference I made earlier, read the part where he tries to kill his twin on Arthur's Seat. It's hilarious. }