## Chestnuts

Chestnuts. Interesting word. Last night, I came to this city, Bologna. The pun of the name is in the past, as well, a past of my childhood, bologna, a past of mid-50’s slang, like this city, all Italian cities, architecture, Mussolini, the fading light of sunsets, the love that can only be appreciated in the past. Like last night, when, after I met Lucas - there’s a story, Lucas, Lucas, I saw him in Firenze, juggling, badly, throwing his balls high in the air, dropping expectations and loose change. Here I greeted him as a friend, though we hadn’t met, and we went to juggleries and busking, meaning he did, to pay for half the dinner, pizza, on the square, on the ground, singing old folk songs, his crazy jean kilt, receding hairline and like, he’s thirty for chrissakes, but we hugged and sang and drank bad beer with his bad french-english, not so bad I guess. Told me how a polish girl had given him wine last night, and he went in a restaurant to open it, and it had been shoplifted and they kept it. “Richard, this is great, but I miss women.” Ah - Lucas, a thousand words, and none for Lucas. After wandering we sat to watch Poi, and I saw, I saw two girls, one blonde, who sat near, who understood english, and how I longed to speak, but I stutter, I mumble, I foment, and here I was, fermenting my love, my kind, aging it, just waiting to return it to the store. But Lucas, he leans over, maybe he saw the glances between me and the flax, he leans over, he talks, never drops a beat - amazing. In two minutes, “ when was the last time you kissed a boy” - awkward glances, awkward laughs, but they enjoy it - in three minutes, I sitting on the side, he is massaging the dark one’s feet, touching, she not tickled - Lucas, the bastard. I guffaw, yawp, too loudly on the side lines, try to ask questions, hear their story, anything. They’re from Brighton. Their names? We guess, long guesses. We get one, the tow, Anna, anna, “My sister”, I proclaim. And get this, her dad is richard, now there’s an opportunity for pillow names), and the other, the other - who knows. They’d been working here for a month, a month without - , and been getting gipped by a landlord, what was the word they used, whiffed? And they’d been climbing the slopes of the Apennines, gleaning chestnuts - now we’ve come to it - chestnuts, shaking trees, climbing - where’s the erotic there - but ran away - how proud they were of that, they said it twice or so, how I wanted to learn more. But then, in media res, coitus interrupts, or Curtis, or, in this case, Hatty came, Hatty from Edinburgh, and I get up, greet her like an Italian, and say my goodbyes. Lucas announces he is going to Firenze that night - and, horror, the girls, they’re off to Britain again, off tomorrow, off and off. I say goodbyes, and go, grab my pack, have a coffee, o but this isn’t important - finish, go back, and see them, but no, they’re leaving, and I ask Lucas, for they leave together, “Lucas, you’re going to Firenze” and he says yes, yes, but who knows if he meant it, I don’t think - but I have chestnuts in my pocket, I got them in the botanical garden, and I’ll sit here in the same square, eat a plum, and juggle them and maybe one day that’ll be something.